Add documentation for Cloud Credentials (#836)
okteto/docs: src/content/admin/cloud-credentials/aws.mdx

---
title: AWS
description: Configure AWS credentials
sidebar_label: aws
id: aws-cloud-credentials
---
import Image from "@theme/Image";

> This tutorial will guide you on how to configure AWS credentials for your Okteto instance. In this specific guide we'll request access to s3 resource but you can provide access to any other AWS resource by using a role with more/different permissions.

Reviewer: I would be explicit here about the goal of defining AWS credentials. We can explain that deploy/destroy/test commands will get access to your was account using these credentials

It's recommended that you have the [AWS CLI installed](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html#getting-started-install-instructions) to follow this tutorial.

> AWS credentials are configured using OIDC federation to assume an IAM Role via Web Identity.

Reviewer: Can we add links to what "OIDC federation" and "IAM Role via Web Identity" means?

## Step 1: Create the Identity Provider

> ```bash

Reviewer: Let's add a general intro paragraph explaining the goal of this step

OIDC_ENDPOINT=https://container.googleapis.com/v1/projects/my-project-12345/locations/us-central1/clusters/development
AUDIENCE=registry.okteto.dev
aws iam create-open-id-connect-provider --url "${OIDC_ENDPOINT}" --client-id-list "${AUDIENCE}"
{
    "OpenIDConnectProviderArn": "arn:aws:iam::112233445566:oidc-provider/container.googleapis.com/v1/projects/my-project-12345/locations/us-central1/clusters/development"
}
```

Okteto displays the OIDC endpoint of your cluster in the admin general view:

   <p align="center">
     <Image
       src={require("@site/static/img/amazon-ecr-oidc-config.png").default}
       alt="OIDC configuration in admin general view"
     />
   </p>

Traditionally, `AUDIENCE` is the client id of the requester. You'll only exchange token for these audiences. It is the `aud` field of the JWT payload.

> We recommend creating a different/dedicated audience for each okteto cluster and region used even if you use the same identity provider:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend creating a different/dedicated audience for each Okteto instance and region used even if you use the same identity provider:
```

          "container.googleapis.com/v1/projects/my-project-12345/locations/us-central1/clusters/development:sub": "${OKTETO_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
EOT

aws iam create-role --role-name okteto-credentials --assume-role-policy-document file://trust-policy.json
{
    "Role": {
        "Path": "/",
        "RoleName": "okteto-credentials",
        "RoleId": "AR...",
        "Arn": "arn:aws:iam::112233445566:role/okteto-credentials",
        "CreateDate": "2024-06-10T15:04:05+00:00",
        "AssumeRolePolicyDocument": {
            "Version": "2012-10-17",
            "Statement": [
                {
                    "Effect": "Allow",
                    "Principal": {
                        "Service": "s3.amazonaws.com"
                    },
                    "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

Attach an s3 policy to read and write s3 buckets:

```bash
aws iam attach-role-policy --role-name my-private-registry --policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonS3FullAccess
```

## Step 3: Configure the credentials in Okteto

> Enable AWS in the [Cloud Credentials view](index.mdx) with the following configuration:

Reviewer: Why are we linking to `index.mdx` again? I would add screenshots here explaining how to do it when they are available instead

- **Role ARN**: The Role ARN from the previous step
- **Region**: The AWS Region
- **Audience**: The Audience used for the Identity Provider

> This will allow Okteto to access the desired AWS resources in `okteto deploy` and `okteto test` commands.

Reviewer: and `okteto destroy`, right?

Reviewer: I would add a simple about how to deploy an s3 bucket on `okteto deploy`, and delete it on `okteto destroy`.

---
title: AWS
description: Configure AWS credentials
sidebar_label: aws
id: aws-cloud-credentials
---
import Image from "@theme/Image";

> This tutorial will guide you on how to configure AWS credentials for your Okteto instance. Configuring AWS credentials will allow deploy, test, and destroy commands in your okteto manifest to have access to your AWS account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial will guide you on how to configure AWS credentials for your Okteto instance. Configuring AWS credentials enables the deploy, test, and destroy commands in your Okteto Manifest to access your AWS account.
```

> In this specific guide we'll request access to s3 resource but you can provide access to any other AWS resource by using a role with more/different permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this specific guide we'll request access to an s3 resource but you can provide access to any other AWS resource by using a role with more/different permissions.
```

It's recommended that you have the [AWS CLI installed](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html#getting-started-install-instructions) to follow this tutorial.

AWS credentials are configured using [OIDC federation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_providers_oidc.html) to [assume an IAM Role via Web Identity](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_manage-assume.html).

## Step 1: Create the Identity Provider

As a first step let's register the Kubernetes cluster as an OIDC identity provider in AWS.

```bash
OIDC_ENDPOINT=https://container.googleapis.com/v1/projects/my-project-12345/locations/us-central1/clusters/development
AUDIENCE=registry.okteto.dev
aws iam create-open-id-connect-provider --url "${OIDC_ENDPOINT}" --client-id-list "${AUDIENCE}"
{
    "OpenIDConnectProviderArn": "arn:aws:iam::112233445566:oidc-provider/container.googleapis.com/v1/projects/my-project-12345/locations/us-central1/clusters/development"
}
```

> Okteto displays the OIDC endpoint of your cluster in the admin general view:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Okteto displays the OIDC endpoint of your cluster in the Admin -> General view of the Dashboard:
```

   <p align="center">
     <Image
       src={require("@site/static/img/amazon-ecr-oidc-config.png").default}
       alt="OIDC configuration in admin general view"
     />
   </p>

Traditionally, `AUDIENCE` is the client id of the requester. You'll only exchange token for these audiences. It is the `aud` field of the JWT payload.

> We recommend creating a different/dedicated audience for each okteto instance and region used even if you use the same identity provider:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend creating a different/dedicated audience for each Okteto instance and region used, even if you use the same identity provider:
```

{
    "Role": {
        "Path": "/",
        "RoleName": "okteto-credentials",
        "RoleId": "AR...",
        "Arn": "arn:aws:iam::112233445566:role/okteto-credentials",
        "CreateDate": "2024-06-10T15:04:05+00:00",
        "AssumeRolePolicyDocument": {
            "Version": "2012-10-17",
            "Statement": [
                {
                    "Effect": "Allow",
                    "Principal": {
                        "Service": "s3.amazonaws.com"
                    },
                    "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

Attach an s3 policy to read and write s3 buckets:

```bash
aws iam attach-role-policy --role-name my-private-registry --policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonS3FullAccess
```

## Step 3: Configure the credentials in Okteto

Enable AWS in the [Cloud Credentials view](index.mdx) with the following configuration:

- **Role ARN**: The Role ARN from the previous step
- **Region**: The AWS Region
- **Audience**: The Audience used for the Identity Provider

This will allow Okteto to access the desired AWS resources in okteto deploy, test, and destroy commands.

> With the above configuration the following okteto manifest will be able to access the s3 bucket out of the box for all three commands[1]:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the above configuration the following Okteto Manifest will be able to access the s3 bucket out of the box for all three commands[1]:
```
